<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_3004_470-4_T48_70295215">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3004.470-4</ph> Contract clauses.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Contracting officers shall insert the basic clause at (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.204-71, <i>Contractor Employee Access,</i> in solicitations and contracts when contractor and/or subcontractor employees require recurring access to government facilities or access to CUI. Contracting officers shall insert the basic clause with its Alternate I for acquisitions requiring contractor access to government information resources. For acquisitions in which contractor and/or subcontractor employees will not have access to government information resources, but the department has determined contractor and/or subcontractor employee access to CUI or government facilities must be limited to U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents, the contracting officer shall insert the clause with its Alternate II. Neither the basic clause nor its alternates shall be used unless contractor and/or subcontractor employees will require recurring access to government facilities or access to CUI. Neither the basic clause nor its alternates should ordinarily be used in contracts with educational institutions.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Contracting officers shall insert the clause at (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.204-72, <i>Safeguarding of Controlled Unclassified Information,</i> in solicitations and contracts where:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Contractor and/or subcontractor employees will have access to CUI; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) CUI will be collected or maintained on behalf of the agency.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Contracting officers shall insert the basic clause with its alternate when Federal information systems, which include contractor information systems operated on behalf of the agency, are used to collect, process, store, or transmit CUI.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Contracting officers shall insert the clause at (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.204-73, <i>Notification and Credit Monitoring Requirements for Personally Identifiable Information Incidents,</i> in solicitations and contracts where contractor and/or subcontractor employees have access to PII.








</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
