<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_3052_204_72_T48_7021551214">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3052.204-72</ph> Safeguarding of controlled unclassified information.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in (HSAR) 48 CFR 3004.470–4(b), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Safeguarding of Controlled Unclassified Information (JUL 2023)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions.</i> As used in this clause—
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Adequate Security</i> means security protections commensurate with the risk resulting from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of information. This includes ensuring that information hosted on behalf of an agency and information systems and applications used by the agency operate effectively and provide appropriate confidentiality, integrity, and availability protections through the application of cost-effective security controls.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI)</i> is any information the Government creates or possesses, or an entity creates or possesses for or on behalf of the Government (other than classified information) that a law, regulation, or Governmentwide policy requires or permits an agency to handle using safeguarding or dissemination controls. This definition includes the following CUI categories and subcategories of information:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Chemical-terrorism Vulnerability Information (CVI) as defined in 6 CFR part 27, “Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards,” and as further described in supplementary guidance issued by an authorized official of the Department of Homeland Security (including the Revised Procedural Manual “Safeguarding Information Designated as Chemical-Terrorism Vulnerability Information” dated September 2008);
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(2) Protected Critical Infrastructure Information (PCII) as set out in the Critical Infrastructure Information Act of 2002 (title XXII, subtitle B of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 as amended through Public Law 116–283), PCII's implementing regulations (6 CFR part 29), the PCII Program Procedures Manual, and any supplementary guidance officially communicated by an authorized official of the Department of Homeland Security, the PCII Program Manager, or a PCII Program Manager Designee;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(3) Sensitive Security Information (SSI) as defined in 49 CFR part 1520, “Protection of Sensitive Security Information,” as amended, and any supplementary guidance officially communicated by an authorized official of the Department of Homeland Security (including the Assistant Secretary for the Transportation Security Administration or designee), including Department of Homeland Security MD 11056.1, “Sensitive Security Information (SSI)” and, within the Transportation Security Administration, TSA MD 2810.1, “SSI Program”;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(4) Homeland Security Agreement Information means information the Department of Homeland Security receives pursuant to an agreement with State, local, Tribal, territorial, or private sector partners that is required to be protected by that agreement. The Department receives this information in furtherance of the missions of the Department, including, but not limited to, support of the Fusion Center Initiative and activities for cyber information sharing consistent with the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(5) Homeland Security Enforcement Information means unclassified information of a sensitive nature lawfully created, possessed, or transmitted by the Department of Homeland Security in furtherance of its immigration, customs, and other civil and criminal enforcement missions, the unauthorized disclosure of which could adversely impact the mission of the Department;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(6) International Agreement Information means information the Department of Homeland Security receives that is required to be protected by an information sharing agreement or arrangement with a foreign government, an international organization of governments or any element thereof, an international or foreign public or judicial body, or an international or foreign private or non-governmental organization;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(7) Information Systems Vulnerability Information (ISVI) means:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Department of Homeland Security information technology (IT) systems data revealing infrastructure used for servers, desktops, and networks; applications name, version, and release; switching, router, and gateway information; interconnections and access methods; and mission or business use/need. Examples of ISVI are systems inventories and enterprise architecture models. Information pertaining to national security systems and eligible for classification under Executive Order 13526 will be classified as appropriate; and/or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(ii) Information regarding developing or current technology, the release of which could hinder the objectives of the Department, compromise a technological advantage or countermeasure, cause a denial of service, or provide an adversary with sufficient information to clone, counterfeit, or circumvent a process or system;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(8) Operations Security Information means Department of Homeland Security information that could be collected, analyzed, and exploited by a foreign adversary to identify intentions, capabilities, operations, and vulnerabilities that threaten operational security for the missions of the Department;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(9) Personnel Security Information means information that could result in physical risk to Department of Homeland Security personnel or other individuals whom the Department is responsible for protecting;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(10) Physical Security Information means reviews or reports illustrating or disclosing facility infrastructure or security vulnerabilities related to the protection of Federal buildings, grounds, or property. For example, threat assessments, system security plans, contingency plans, risk management plans, business impact analysis studies, and certification and accreditation documentation;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(11) Privacy Information includes both Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and Sensitive Personally Identifiable Information (SPII). PII refers to information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, either alone, or when combined with other information that is linked or linkable to a specific individual; and SPII is a subset of PII that if lost, compromised, or disclosed without authorization could result in substantial harm, embarrassment, inconvenience, or unfairness to an individual. To determine whether information is PII, the DHS will perform an assessment of the specific risk that an individual can be identified using the information with other information that is linked or linkable to the individual. In performing this assessment, it is important to recognize that information that is not PII can become PII whenever additional information becomes available, in any medium or from any source, that would make it possible to identify an individual. Certain data elements are particularly sensitive and may alone present an increased risk of harm to the individual.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Examples of stand-alone PII that are particularly sensitive include: Social Security numbers (SSNs), driver's license or State identification numbers, Alien Registration Numbers (A-numbers), financial account numbers, and biometric identifiers.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(ii) Multiple pieces of information may present an increased risk of harm to the individual when combined, posing an increased risk of harm to the individual. SPII may also consist of any grouping of information that contains an individual's name or other unique identifier plus one or more of the following elements:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(A) 
			Truncated SSN (such as last 4 digits);
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(B) Date of birth (month, day, and year);
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(C) Citizenship or immigration status;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(D) Ethnic or religious affiliation;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(E) Sexual orientation;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(F) Criminal history;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(G) Medical information; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(H) System authentication information, such as mother's birth name, account passwords, or personal identification numbers (PINs).
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(iii) Other PII that may present an increased risk of harm to the individual depending on its context, such as a list of employees and their performance ratings or an unlisted home address or phone number. The context includes the purpose for which the PII was collected, maintained, and used. This assessment is critical because the same information in different contexts can reveal additional information about the impacted individual.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Federal information</i> means information created, collected, processed, maintained, disseminated, disclosed, or disposed of by or for the Federal Government, in any medium or form.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Federal information system</i> means an information system used or operated by an agency or by a Contractor of an agency or by another organization on behalf of an agency.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Handling</i> means any use of controlled unclassified information, including but not limited to marking, safeguarding, transporting, disseminating, re-using, storing, capturing, and disposing of the information.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Incident</i> means an occurrence that—
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the integrity, confidentiality, or availability of information or an information system; or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(2) Constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Information Resources</i> means information and related resources, such as personnel, equipment, funds, and information technology.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Information Security</i> means protecting information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in order to provide—
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Integrity, which means guarding against improper information modification or destruction, and includes ensuring information nonrepudiation and authenticity;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(2) Confidentiality, which means preserving authorized restrictions on access and disclosure, including means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary information; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(3) Availability, which means ensuring timely and reliable access to and use of information.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Information System</i> means a discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information.
</p>
                                 <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Handling of Controlled Unclassified Information.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Contractors and subcontractors must provide adequate security to protect CUI from unauthorized access and disclosure. Adequate security includes compliance with DHS policies and procedures in effect at the time of contract award. These policies and procedures are accessible at <i>https://www.dhs.gov/dhs-security-and-training-requirements-contractors.</i>
                                 </p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Contractor shall not use or redistribute any CUI handled, collected, processed, stored, or transmitted by the Contractor except as specified in the contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) The Contractor shall not maintain SPII in its invoicing, billing, and other recordkeeping systems maintained to support financial or other administrative functions. It is acceptable to maintain in these systems the names, titles, and contact information for the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) or other government personnel associated with the administration of the contract, as needed.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) Any government data provided, developed, or obtained under the contract, or otherwise under the control of the Contractor, shall not become part of the bankruptcy estate in the event a Contractor and/or subcontractor enters bankruptcy proceedings.
</p>
                                 <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Incident Reporting Requirements.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Contractors and subcontractors shall report all known or suspected incidents to the Component Security Operations Center (SOC) in accordance with Attachment F, <i>Incident Response,</i> to DHS Policy Directive 4300A <i>Information Technology System Security Program, Sensitive Systems.</i> If the Component SOC is not available, the Contractor shall report to the DHS Enterprise SOC. Contact information for the DHS Enterprise SOC is accessible at <i>https://www.dhs.gov/dhs-security-and-training-requirements-contractors.</i> Subcontractors are required to notify the prime Contractor that it has reported a known or suspected incident to the Department. Lower tier subcontractors are required to likewise notify their higher tier subcontractor, until the prime contractor is reached. The Contractor shall also notify the Contracting Officer and COR using the contact information identified in the contract. If the report is made by phone, or the email address for the Contracting Officer or COR is not immediately available, the Contractor shall contact the Contracting Officer and COR immediately after reporting to the Component or DHS Enterprise SOC.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) All known or suspected incidents involving PII or SPII shall be reported within 1 hour of discovery. All other incidents shall be reported within 8 hours of discovery.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) CUI transmitted via email shall be protected by encryption or transmitted within secure communications systems. CUI shall be transmitted using a <i>FIPS 140–2/140–3 Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules</i> validated cryptographic module identified on <i>https://csrc.nist.gov/projectscryptographic-module-validation-program/validated-modules.</i> When this is impractical or unavailable, for Federal information systems only, CUI may be transmitted over regular email channels. When using regular email channels, Contractors and subcontractors shall not include any CUI in the subject or body of any email. The CUI shall be included as a password-protected attachment with the password provided under separate cover, including as a separate email. Recipients of CUI information will comply with any email restrictions imposed by the originator.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) An incident shall not, by itself, be interpreted as evidence that the Contractor or Subcontractor has failed to provide adequate information security safeguards for CUI or has otherwise failed to meet the requirements of the contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(5) If an incident involves PII or SPII, in addition to the incident reporting guidelines in Attachment F, <i>Incident Response,</i> to DHS Policy Directive 4300A <i>Information Technology System Security Program, Sensitive Systems,</i> Contractors shall also provide as many of the following data elements that are available at the time the incident is reported, with any remaining data elements provided within 24 hours of submission of the initial incident report:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) Unique Entity Identifier (UEI);
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Contract numbers affected unless all contracts by the company are affected;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Facility CAGE code if the location of the event is different than the prime Contractor location;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Point of contact (POC) if different than the POC recorded in the System for Award Management (address, position, telephone, and email);
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(v) Contracting Officer POC (address, telephone, and email);
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(vi) Contract clearance level;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(vii) Name of subcontractor and CAGE code if this was an incident on a subcontractor network;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(viii) Government programs, platforms, or systems involved;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ix) Location(s) of incident;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(x) Date and time the incident was discovered;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(xi) Server names where CUI resided at the time of the incident, both at the Contractor and subcontractor level;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(xii) Description of the government PII or SPII contained within the system; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(xiii) Any additional information relevant to the incident.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Incident Response Requirements.</i>
                                 </p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) All determinations by the Department related to incidents, including response activities, will be made in writing by the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Contractor shall provide full access and cooperation for all activities determined by the Government to be required to ensure an effective incident response, including providing all requested images, log files, and event information to facilitate rapid resolution of incidents.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) Incident response activities determined to be required by the Government may include, but are not limited to, the following:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) Inspections;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Investigations;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Forensic reviews;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Data analyses and processing; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(v) Revocation of the Authority to Operate (ATO), if applicable.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) The Contractor shall immediately preserve and protect images of known affected information systems and all available monitoring/packet capture data. The monitoring/packet capture data shall be retained for at least 180 days from submission of the incident report to allow DHS to request the media or decline interest.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(5) The Government, at its sole discretion, may obtain assistance from other Federal agencies and/or third-party firms to aid in incident response activities.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Certificate of Sanitization of Government and Government-Activity-Related Files and Information.</i> Upon the conclusion of the contract by expiration, termination, cancellation, or as otherwise indicated in the contract, the Contractor shall return all CUI to DHS and/or destroy it physically and/or logically as identified in the contract unless the contract states that return and/or destruction of CUI is not required. Destruction shall conform to the guidelines for media sanitization contained in NIST SP 800–88, <i>Guidelines for Media Sanitization.</i> The Contractor shall certify and confirm the sanitization of all government and government-activity related files and information. The Contractor shall submit the certification to the COR and Contracting Officer following the template provided in NIST SP 800–88, <i>Guidelines for Media Sanitization,</i> Appendix G.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Other Reporting Requirements.</i> Incident reporting required by this clause in no way rescinds the Contractor's responsibility for other incident reporting pertaining to its unclassified information systems under other clauses that may apply to its contract(s), or as a result of other applicable statutory or regulatory requirements, or other U.S. Government requirements.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Subcontracts.</i> The Contractor shall insert this clause in all subcontracts and require subcontractors to include this clause in all lower tier subcontracts when subcontractor employees will have access to CUI; CUI will be collected or maintained on behalf of the agency by a subcontractor; or a subcontractor information system(s) will be used to process, store, or transmit CUI.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Alternate I</i> (JUL 2023)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">When Federal information systems, which include Contractor information systems operated on behalf of the agency, are used to collect, process, store, or transmit CUI, add the following paragraphs:


</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(h) <i>Authority to Operate.</i> The Contractor shall not collect, process, store, or transmit CUI within a Federal information system until an ATO has been granted by the Component or Headquarters CIO, or designee. Once the ATO has been granted by the Government, the Contracting Officer shall incorporate the ATO into the contract as a compliance document. Unless otherwise specified in the ATO letter, the ATO is valid for 3 years. An ATO is granted at the sole discretion of the Government and can be revoked at any time. Contractor receipt of an ATO does not create any contractual right of access or entitlement. The Government's grant of an ATO does not alleviate the Contractor's responsibility to ensure the information system controls are implemented and operating effectively.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Complete the Security Authorization process.</i> The Security Authorization (SA) process shall proceed according to DHS Policy Directive 4300A <i>Information Technology System Security Program, Sensitive Systems</i> (Version 13.3, February 13, 2023), or any successor publication; and the <i>Security Authorization Process Guide,</i> including templates. These policies and templates are accessible at <i>https://www.dhs.gov/dhs-security-and-training-requirements-contractors.</i>
                                 </p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) <i>Security Authorization Package.</i> The SA package shall be developed using the government-provided Security Requirements Traceability Matrix and SA templates. The SA package consists of the following: Security Plan, Contingency Plan, Contingency Plan Test Results, Configuration Management Plan, Security Assessment Plan, Security Assessment Report, and Authorization to Operate Letter. Additional documents that may be required include a Plan(s) of Action and Milestones and Interconnection Security Agreement(s). The Contractor shall submit a signed copy of the SA package, validated by an independent third party, to the COR for review and approval by the Component or Headquarters CIO, or designee, at least 30 days prior to the date of operation of the information system. The Government is the final authority on the compliance of the SA package and may limit the number of resubmissions of modified documents.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) <i>Independent Assessment.</i> Contractors shall have an independent third party validate the security and privacy controls in place for the information system(s). The independent third party shall review and analyze the SA package, and report on technical, operational, and management level deficiencies as outlined in NIST SP 800–53, <i>Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations,</i> or successor publication, accessible at <i>https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/sp.</i> The Contractor shall address all deficiencies before submitting the SA package to the COR for review.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Renewal of ATO.</i> Unless otherwise specified in the ATO letter, the Contractor shall renew the ATO every 3 years. The Contractor is required to update its SA package as part of the ATO renewal process for review and verification of security controls. Review and verification of security controls is independent of the system production date and may include onsite visits that involve physical or logical inspection of the Contractor environment to ensure controls are in place. The updated SA package shall be submitted for review and approval by the Component or Headquarters CIO, or designee, at least 90 days before the ATO expiration date. The Contractor shall update its SA package by one of the following methods:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) Updating the SA package in the DHS Information Assurance Compliance System; or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Submitting the updated SA package directly to the COR.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Security Review.</i> The Government may elect to conduct periodic reviews to ensure that the security requirements contained in the contract are being implemented and enforced. The Government, at its sole discretion, may obtain assistance from other Federal agencies and/or third-party firms to aid in security review activities. The Contractor shall afford DHS, the Office of the Inspector General, other government organizations, and Contractors working in support of the Government access to the Contractor's facilities, installations, operations, documentation, databases, networks, systems, and personnel used in the performance of this contract. The Contractor shall, through the Contracting Officer and COR, contact the Component or Headquarters CIO, or designee, to coordinate and participate in review and inspection activity by government organizations external to DHS. Access shall be provided, to the extent necessary as determined by the Government (including providing all requested images), for the Government to carry out a program of inspection, investigation, and audit to safeguard against threats and hazards to the integrity, availability, and confidentiality of government data or the function of computer systems used in performance of this contract and to preserve evidence of computer crime.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Federal Reporting and Continuous Monitoring Requirements.</i> Contractors operating information systems on behalf of the Government shall comply with Federal reporting and information system continuous monitoring requirements. Reporting requirements are determined by the Government and are defined in the Fiscal Year 2015 DHS Information Security Performance Plan, or successor publication, accessible at <i>https://www.dhs.gov/dhs-security-and-training-requirements-contractors.</i> The plan is updated on an annual basis. Annual, quarterly, and monthly data collection will be coordinated by the Government. The Contractor shall provide the Government with all information to fully satisfy Federal reporting requirements for information systems. The Contractor shall provide the COR with requested information within 3 business days of receipt of the request. Unless otherwise specified in the contract, monthly continuous monitoring data shall be stored at the Contractor's location for a period not less than 1 year from the date the data are created. The Government may elect to perform information system continuous monitoring and IT security scanning of information systems from government tools and infrastructure.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)






</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
